[Prince]
Previously on   Billions...
[Sweeney] Charles Rhoades Jr.
is hereby removed
as attorney general
of the State of New York.
[Ira]   Chuck, we have your
things. A plan has been made.
We're taking you
to Rundas Lodge.
-[DeGiulio]   Fresh air.
-[Senior]   Vigorous bodywork.
[Taylor]
Philip seems to be creating
a real "leader of men" vibe
on the floor.
Call an all-hands meeting
at the house.
Someone sets out
to slay a dragon,
and behind them is an army.
I killed the dragon
that was Chuck Rhoades.
There's a reason
why the killing
isn't the end of the story.
The real end is when you
eat the dragon's heart.
My victories
are our victories.
We could leave.
I just can't fall in love
with someone I work with.
For you to succeed at being
whatever it is you want to be,
you need to stop
lying to yourself.
You want power
because you like power.
Let's not forget about you.
What you want
out of all of this.
[Wendy]
Me? I guess I just don't know.
[Prince]   And after all that talk
about not lying to oneself.
I'm not lying to myself.
I'm lying to you.
I know the manuscript is late,
but it's worth it.
Prince showed himself in Albany.
He came to watch.
And someone who loves
the blood sport
can be induced
into another fight.
[woman]
Focus on each breath.
Count them
until you reach a billion.
You will have stopped counting,
which is the whole idea.
[indistinct chatter]
[ticking clock
rises in volume]
[truck engine starts]
[clock ticking]
I keep this place
as a tax write-off.
Clever.
Legal tax avoidance strategy
against people in,
uh, government,
uh, like you.
Well, people like you
used to be, anyway.
You still have Miss McGrath
on the payroll?
She looks like
she voted for Ike.
Ha! She did, twice.
Ah.
[Senior] She is
supposed to tend to these.
Oh, well, nothing stays moist
and supple forever.
If that is some veiled reference
to a supposed
decades-old contretemps
between me and Doris
out there...
that was just your mother
being paranoid.
Sure thing.
Anyway, you're all set up.
Desk. Phones.
Fax machine.
The girl to take a letter.
Whatever you need.
And as always, I hope that you
enjoy my largesse.
And as always, Dad,
I thank you for this.
For the trip to Rundas.
That really reset me,
just as you intended.
Even more so.
[deep sigh]
[clock ticking]
[traffic ambience]
[knock on door]
Good morning. Thank you
for agreeing to meet.
Well, how could I stop myself
from seeing what you wanted?
[laughs]
Indeed.
The answer to that question is:
I come with an offer.
Pick a position for yourself,
senior level,
at one of these companies.
[chuckles]
Oh.
-Prince owns all of these?
-He does.
-Spread out across the country.
-Ah.
-So I beat it out of town?
-Only if it's a plus.
-[soft chuckle]
-You choose.
Head of Legal,
Chief Counsel,
Director of Operations,
and the like.
A restaurant group,
meat processing plants,
a boutique hotel chain,
tech ventures, textile mills,
clothing chains,
auto parts manufacturers.
Differences don't have
to be permanent.
Temporary discord
between talented parties
can be overcome
for a more productive future.
Mike says this offer is for you
to find the way forward.
Leave you with dignity
in defeat.
Mmm.
Says you'd know what that means.
[chuckles]
Yeah.
That does have
a familiar ring to it.
[clock ticking]
I'll admit, this is not
what I expected.
Hmm.
I'll leave you to ruminate
and check back shortly.
[door opens and closes]
Who wouldn't want
George Foreman's imprimatur
on their fat-reducing grill?
So, heck yes, Andrew,
who wouldn't want
Andrew Yang's endorsement...
when the time is right.
Which will be soon.
Thanks. We'll talk more.
I don't know if you're aware,
but this is incendiary.
Incendiary.
Who wrote what?
Wendy Rhoades.
About this place.
And it has hijacked the day.
When did she do this?
When she was gone at
that Buddhist retreat?
How it started.
This is how it's going.
I saw her since her return.
We spent real time together.
She never mentioned.
Note says she had
the ending wrong,
thanks you for the help
with the rewrite.
Dang it.
That's why she grilled me.
Ha! She-- Wow.
Less advanced person
figures she'll wait
till the book is announced
or published,
deal with the flack then.
But Wendy Rhoades, she shows
everyone way ahead of time,
as if to get our blessing
or feedback.
Gets in front of it all.
-Smart.
-Sure.
But a lot of our people
want you to kill it.
And you probably should.
Probably will.
I already flagged
the most damning passages.
Okay, so that's the urgent.
Now, let's deal
with the important.
Ah, yes, your universal
basic income plan.
No, don't call it that.
It's Quality of Life Funds.
"QOLF"?
-Doesn't roll off the tongue.
-No, it does not.
Mike Money, you know?
Mike Money.
-Yeah, I like it.
-A thousand a month
-for those who--
-Yep. Mike Money.
I'm sitting on a ton
of collateral right now,
so it's time to convince
the Brooklyn borough president
to get behind
a pilot program
to prove it works
and is scalable.
I'm with you.
But coming off
our Olympics collapse,
you sure it's the right time?
That's exactly
why it has to be now.
[inaudible]
At ease, sergeant.
Not at ease
till you leave.
That is why
you're a great soldier.
Always at attention.
You know the more productive
meetings are on your feet.
This is why I will need you
in my cabinet.
Like the cabinets
above the sink, or...?
Not at all. You see--
I see you want to close
to whisper distance.
Don't. No one else
can hear you.
Fine.
Die Informationen
is that Prince has called
a succession meeting.
I'm on the short list.
And so, I'm here to give you
the chance to throw in early,
thereby securing your place
at my elbow come the new morn.
So, can I count on it?
Your support.
I think you know exactly
the esteem in which I hold you.
I have been clear
on the matter.
And don't you think
I don't appreciate it.
I've got a good eye on you
for a sub-leadership spot.
A good eye.
Shrewd move.
Mike puts a succession plan
in place,
makes investors think
this is the Model fucking U.N.,
then they leave the czar
the fuck alone.
[laughs]
Nothing quite so complicated.
I just want the firm to be
strong enough,
resilient enough to thrive,
even if I'm gone.
Is there some legal announcement
forthcoming,
or dare I say, prognosis
you would wish to impart?
I get it.
In the old regime,
you'd receive your trading
orders from inside a pine box
before you saw
a change of leadership.
There's a reason why they had
to stab Caligula 30 times
to haul him out of the palace.
Axe Cap was run by diktat.
MPC is run by deliberation.
Axe Cap was built
on shock and surprise.
MPC is built on planning
and anticipation.
Investors shouldn't have
to guess what happens
if my G650 goes down,
or I slide off
a steep rock face.
By naming a successor, I can--
My meeting. My agenda.
Oh, uh, this is just a list
of my accomplishments.
Ergo, the fund's accomplishments
under my tenure.
Mike's not taking applications.
I would never.
James Garfield
is the better model here.
For that vest you're wearing?
[chuckles]
JG wasn't the showiest
candidate.
Wasn't even on the first ballot
at his own nominating
convention.
But as the shinier baubles
lost their luster,
he began to emerge
as the solid choice.
The consensus choice.
As I hope to do now,
as opposed
to on the 36th ballot.
Well, there's only one ballot
in this contest.
Zero chance you are on it.
[Scooter] You're here
as parliamentarian.
A glorified notetaker, really.
Not a voting member.
Not even on the ballot.
[clicks tongue]
Please don't do that again.
We need a voice
in who replaces you,
-however unlikely that may be.
-If you're even considering
putting Spyros in
the line of succession--
-Zero chance.
-Fine, fine.
Consensus candidates rarely
emerge in the early going.
I'll just wait, steadily,
reliably, for the factionalism
to brew.
But your timing
couldn't have been better.
My designated successor
will be one of you.
To be decided how,
exactly?
I was planning on having you
speak at the next meeting.
Battle of ideas.
But why don't we put
this thing on its feet?
Start defining
your command climate now
and acting as-if.
'Cause it is coming.
And you're asking me
to read this book?
I don't know
what I'm asking.
You do.
Now let yourself
tell me.
I don't think of myself
as a fearful person
or a particularly
strategic thinker.
As to the first,
the job of living is the job
of understanding that fear.
As to the second...
this, right here,
is the place
we give up the lies we tell
ourselves about who we are.
I said something so similar
to somebody recently.
But, shit, yes.
Daniel, yes.
It applies here too.
I did something
that was both strategic
and driven by fear today.
I engineered a way
to distract the subjects
of the book
with the book itself.
That way, they would lobby me
about how they were portrayed
instead of if they'd only
heard about it,
trying to get me
not to publish it.
So preying on their fear
while giving in to your own.
I'd like to tell myself
that's not the case.
Have you considered
the other choice?
Not publishing?
-You think I shouldn't publish?
-No.
I'm not sharing
that opinion.
I'm asking a different question.
What would it feel like
to hold back?
It feels...
writing it felt like
letting the bile out.
Like coming clean.
Like a chance to redeem
not only myself,
but the people
who do this work
and the people who want to.
Or is this the performance
of all that?
Of letting go
of the need for power
and influence and money
while still feeding
all those same needs.
Are you finally putting
those temptations to bed?
Or are you fueling them?
Is that what it is?
Probably not.
Well, it's probably
as you say.
The arrow launched
from the bow,
point of no return
and all that.
Right?
-Nihao.
-Thanks.
[speaking Chinese]
How was China?
Here.   Li shang wang lai.
Traditional gift-giving.
You don't open it
in front of the giver.
Philip is correct,
you heathen.
Thank you for your worldliness,
Philip.
Makes sense that Prince
is considering you for--
Was surprised you weren't
in the room.
I was still in the air,
flying back.
-Must've been why.
-Right.
You want to give this place
a real gift?
Get this Wendy Rhoades book
spiked.
Chronicles the era
before my time here mostly,
but it's distracting folks.
-You read it?
-On the plane.
A real page-turner.
The raw portrayals,
the ugliness.
Morale was so good
after the party,
but at the moment,
it ain't great.
[scoffs] I find Wendy's
work kind of fascinating.
And Lance isn't a wholly
inaccurate depiction.
"Dark, dangerous looks,
and a knife fighter's attitude
towards the stock market."
Depiction of who?
Me.
Uh, by my read,
Lance is clearly Victor.
-That's right.
-But I thought...
Wait, then who am I?
Ooh, Tom. You're Tom.
"With a trading style as crisp
as a basket of unfolded laundry.
Aggressive enough?
Time would tell.
But a world away
from the typical alphas."
There you go.
Crap. This character
is clueless.
And he's barely even in it.
Wags, you've gotta talk
to Prince
and get him to stop
this damn book.
Bigger issues on my desktop
at the moment.
[mouthing silently]
What's up, gents?
I come bearing gifts,
and I'm not just talking
about red gift-wrapped crap
I picked up at duty-free.
-We're listening.
-I've got a way for us to slide,
gigolo-style,
into a Chinese payday.
It's
infrastructure-as-investment,
a major Peeps Republic play
in hydroelectric dams
and high-speed rail
across Asia.
I set the table for you.
Manchu-Han Imperial
Banquet-style.
All you need to do
is lend your name
so it all passes the smell test
with Western investors,
and sit back and collect
your profits.
[snaps fingers]
Oh!
And you don't even need
to get on the flight.
Just show up to a meeting
with the partners
and some highly motivated
party officials
who are in New York
this week,
and watch the renminbi
come pouring in.
Yeah, this is a probably not.
Sorry, but we're on
our way out.
Hold on.
This is free money.
This is Amazon in '99.
This is Bitcoin in '09.
-This is--
-Like he said.
And like he said.
You didn't even take your...
What?
[knocks]
[laughs]
You know, Kate,
I kept checking the door
at that sad fiesta
Dave threw for me.
But you didn't show.
Seemed like it might change
the focus of the event.
But I did want to make sure
to come see you.
To congratulate you.
To see what's next.
To raise a toast to you.
Oh.
[chuckles]
The thing is,
because I trained you...
and, to be fair,
your father before me...
and because of your current role
as Prince's Leslie Abramson...
Nice pull. Abramson didn't
win all that much,
so I don't really see
the similarity, but...
-[chuckles]
-Oh, I miss this
back and forth,
the genuine rapport
we always had.
One of the reasons why
I was so excited
when Prince offered you
a role in one of his...
So this isn't merely
a social call.
Well, as you said,
you trained me.
Social calls weren't really part
of the curriculum, were they?
Well, you left before
the education was finished.
Here's a chance for us
to learn together.
Grow together.
We joining Amway?
[laughs]
If Amway were
as highly functioning,
efficient and collegial
as Prince's organization,
-I'd be all for it.
-Oh.
Except there's no way
it's as lucrative.
That good, huh?
Water's warm, Chuck.
And welcoming.
In this post-everything
environment,
with the world shrinking for
someone your age and profile...
Prince offer might the best
coming down the pike.
[laughs]
Oh, here's to you, Kate.
They may have made others
like you,
but I ain't
come across one.
Mm...
And as to your mission,
I will answer in due time.
I thought it was bad form
to have that Scooter Dunbar
come to me as a surrogate,
but I put that aside.
And I have been pondering.
And I give you my oath
that I will surface
a proper response.
I have, in fact,
been working on one.
Prince.
[inhales sharply]
You know, the thing is, Chuck,
Prince doesn't lose.
Not for long.
Seems to me he always
gets what he wants,
and right now
what he wants is you.
You had to assume,
you had to know...
you had to have told him that
I would be in a warring posture
toward the man who took
what I was away from me.
Even if you knew I'd hold
no ill will toward you,
who no doubt
orchestrated it all.
And I hold no ill will
toward you.
This, right now,
is me at my kindest.
I knew all that,
and I came here anyway
to tell you
that this is the moment
you accept who you are
and not who you were,
and to find something
in the wide world of Prince
that you want to do.
There may be other paths
for you, but they all--
every highway,
dirty road and gravel path--
lead one way:
to the even more complete
destruction of Chuck Rhoades.
You, Mike Prince,
want a guaranteed income
for New Yorkers?
That's right.
Cancer diagnosis?
Tax dodge?
Ashton Kutcher and friends
going to come out of retirement
to punk me?
Just a plan to lift this city
off its knees.
My press guy, who knows how
I feel about your tax bracket,
that it shouldn't exist,
he was ready to leak the fuck
out of this meeting.
He'll be fine. We're
about to give him plenty to do.
I'm Brooklyn borough president,
but City Council
has say over funds.
They won't go along
with this.
You've got discretionary funds.
-Not on that scale.
-Then pull a Bull Moose.
When T.R.,
the original Rough Rider,
wanted to send his
Great White Fleet of battleships
around the world
as a show of naval power,
Congress wouldn't
foot the bill.
So he scraped together enough
to send them halfway.
Told Congress,
"You want to bring 'em home,
well, that's up to you."
Announce the program,
and then shame the progressive
wing of the council
into coming along with it.
This time Brooklyn makes,
the rest of the world takes.
Mike Money starts here and now.
[clears throat]
Yeah, don't leak the meeting
to the   Times.
We're gonna give them
a much bigger story.
Motherhusker.
[sighs]
When I first arrived,
you probably knew me
as a data cruncher.
I was green,
so the sun rose and set
with the numbers for me.
And, sure,
the results were good--
market-beating.
Someone's confidence level
is market-beating too.
And they're being tapped
for leadership,
but when I do that,
it's called--
Obnoxious.
I was gonna say
too aggressive.
Jeez.
[Taylor]
But time has passed,
and now I have experience.
I've been through the wars
and bear my scars
and my wins.
But I have also evolved.
Now I recognize events.
And when I see one, I have got
the stomach to go all in--
Shooter, shooter, coming out!
Excuse me?
What you're describing is--
An event-driven approach,
combined with early-stage
investment
in hyper-growth companies.
Disruptors...
And that sounds
pretty damn good.
[Philip] What it sounds like is,
you're a gunslinger.
Sexy rap, but what's the process
going to be?
Everyone here
knows I'm thorough,
and my process
will be solid.
But more importantly, that I
don't have to conform to styles.
I can see the way the pieces
are moving and make a big call.
[Philip]
Sure, you're John Tuld,
and you know when
the music's going to stop.
And the result could be
a hot quarter,
but over time,
once your barrels cool off,
what's the work environment
gonna be like?
I mean, this place was already
a Wild West show.
I, too, would like to know.
Yep. Me too.
[Victor] Yeah, you gonna
peel people off
at the slightest sign
of a downturn?
[Ben Kim] It's always
really the highest earner
who commands
the most respect,
so if you were in charge,
what would the leadership
climate be?
Tough but fair.
Results-based.
You deliver, you'll get room
to run, innovate.
You stumble, things tighten up.
That's the reality.
You want hugs and tea?
Go to an ashram.
You want to get rich,
come to me.
You here to make money
or friends?
That's really the only question
you need to ask.
I've got one other question.
What's for lunch, Chef?
Today, the lunch is from abcV.
All plant-based and vegan.
We have smoked potato
and aioli.
We have cauliflower
and turmeric.
We have some dates,
some coconuts,
dosas, lentils.
-Bon appétit.
-Let's eat!
Philip...
help yourself to a plate...
and eat it at your desk.
Hmm!
If I'd had this before,
prosecuting you all would've
been a hell of a lot easier.
While we're on the subject
of career flubs,
help me understand
what's so fucking toxic
about Chinese money
all of a sudden?
I heard Mike didn't go for your
Chinese infrastructure thing.
If there's some restricted list
I ignored,
like every other email
in my inbox--
No. I signed off on it.
Not toxic to me.
Or Compliance.
Or Risk Management.
The fuck am I missing here?
Maybe just this.
Mike knows a lot of things
that we don't.
And we both know
he's not sloppy or erratic
or impulsive,
not about anything, ever.
So I don't even push?
I just leave all the stacks
of yuan on the table?
All I can tell you is
what a good lawyer does:
Obey your client's wishes,
however ill-advised,
but keep all options open,
in case they come
to their senses.
Well, I thought we could have
a more honest conversation here.
I was honest at the shindig
the other day.
-[chuckles]
-But, yes.
Absolutely easier to meet
out of the office.
You pushed back
plenty hard on me.
I have to be independent.
Of course.
But if there are
commonalities of interest,
paths to success for both of us,
I will hear you out.
Hear me on why Mike Money
is such a good target.
Not sure I see it
the same way.
The "Mike" in Mike Money is the
guy who engineered my removal.
-[chuckles]
-He did that thing.
It doesn't mean this thing
is all wrong.
He wants to give vast sums
of money away
-to people who need it--
-The question to ask yourself
when it comes
to these magnates is:
Why?
Why is he giving away
this much zloty?
Here's a why:
Why does it matter
if he, in fact,
gives this money away
with no direct benefit
coming back to him,
and doesn't break the law
doing it?
Because we both know.
Guys like him,
there's always a benefit.
It's always about themselves.
Probably wants to scoop up
the stimmies and invest them,
or ride the market wave
on the inflow.
And let's talk
about those vast sums.
Where do you imagine
they're coming from?
His bank account.
His money belt.
I can't find evidence of that in
any of the firm's disclosures.
No, Prince hasn't liquidated
any positions.
In fact, the fund is levered up.
My thought is,
he's going to borrow
against the land
he rolled up
for the Olympics,
land your office
can take back by right.
He bought it
for an express purpose,
for which he isn't using it.
Can't, in fact.
There's truth
in what you're saying,
but as I sit here
chewing it over,
I don't want to digest it,
because it's starting
to taste a bit rank.
You went all in
against Prince,
and if we are honest
with each other, you lost.
You won a round, but you lost.
If same happens to me,
all our other work
is jeopardized.
Not a mistake I want to make.
Not now.
Not at the beginning.
Hmm.
[indistinct chatter]
[vocalist]
Mommy, Daddy, look at me
I went to school
And I got a degree
All my friends call it
"The big D"
I went to school
And I got the big D
All right, my friends.
Got the Golden Boy here.
It is Glenlivet scotch,
Madeira and a little bit
of Calvados.
Thank you.
Alex here has my card,
so order what you want
on my tab.
Thank you.
Is everyone
sufficiently hydrated?
Good. I'll get going.
I want to talk about systems.
Running things proper,
so the returns are too.
Oh, this is
a pitch session?
I thought it was
just a drinks thing
under the all-inclusive banner.
Anyway, continue.
Winning in today's environment
is really about rigor.
Research.
Opportunities.
We start with data,
prove our hypothesis,
test it scientifically,
manage our risk,
and take our profits to the--
[claps]
Hooray, another cookie-cutter
hedge fund.
You'll manage to turn a
bellwether into one of the herd,
if they go along with you.
Yeah, the buttoned-down approach
has never worked for me.
I got to be able
to make moves.
Sure, it's easy to mock
being technically sound,
but the goal isn't just
a few hot quarters.
It's a real track record.
A career.
So under your stewardship,
you'd be blocking the
high-risk/high-reward stuff.
That would have left us
out of crypto, certain tech.
That happened to me,
I'd off myself.
Or the boss who wouldn't let me
risk it for the biscuit.
[Ben Kim] I too would find
that tough to live with.
Opportunities are finite.
Too conservative
an approach, and--
Let's stay on track.
My method is not going
to leave profit on the table
at the expense
of whatever gains you guy--
Oh! Classic throwback.
Left my wallet
In El Segundo
Left my wallet in El Segundo
Lookit. Bachelorette party,
12 o'clock high.
The ultimate
proving ground.
[boisterous laughter]
Tiaras and everything.
Let's go.
No. I can't.
Too intimidating.
You can.
Go get 'em.
You got this.
[indistinct chatter]
You're right.
I'm no Tom.
I can be a Lance.
I will be.
Damn right. I'll lead.
You stay on my wing.
Alex, start eight shots
of your best tequila chilling.
Put it on the tab. We'll be back
with our new friends.
Whoa, wait, we were just
in the middle of this.
I thought we were
kind of done.
Just give me five.
Fun venue.
Tough place
for work talk.
Uh-huh.
I gotta get it
I got, got to get...
It should be you. I know it.
Just so you know it.
-About what I said--
-I know it.
You know it.
That's all.
[distant car horn honking]
The irony is, they're
off by a couple bil.
Our aerospace holdings
aren't public yet.
Let's focus
on the Mike Money rollout.
Others throw mud,
we play error-free ball.
Nice work circulating
that Finnish study.
-Press are all citing it.
-Most reporters are lazy.
You just got to cut
their steak for them.
Yang was effusive on MSNBC.
Got Maddow
to call it "Mike Money"
by the end of the segment.
AOC called,
Bob Reich called.
Novo wants to help
on the crypto piece.
Plus half of
City Council called.
I want to call them all
personally.
Press requests
are coming in too.
The plan is to sit with a few
who really shape the CW--
The Heilemanns, the Habermans--
to generate think pieces
on your new capitalism.
[Prince]
Clock's already viral.
Gail texted me some
of the memes, Andy too.
Now, if it's reached
high-altitude at Longs Peak,
it's gonna make Mike Money
look like pocket change.
Who the heck put it there?
Several groups
are taking credit.
Like the terrorist attack it is.
-Anything?
-I don't see a legal recourse.
-It's defamation.
-Not if it's factual.
What about a zoning violation?
This is a residential street.
If we want to wait six months
for the Department of Buildings
to sort it out, sure.
So we throw Skadden Arps
at whoever put it up,
drown them in billable hours.
We don't know where to throw.
It's paid for by a 501(c)(3)
that hasn't disclosed,
and rents space from
a wholly-owned subsidiary.
-Whoever did this did it right.
-Hello?
Yes, Madame Borough President.
I have him right here.
-[Faire]   Some magic act.
-[scoffs]
Sawing a lady in half
while she screams her lungs out.
It's a stunt.
It's coming down.
And the press stories
and the Twitter posts?
They coming down too?
We're tackling
income inequality,
and you're surprised
to find stones in our passway?
You want the blues, Mike?
Talk to the OMB.
Talk to the Council
Finance Committee,
'cause they want to know
how we go Dutch on Mike Money
when you've got more
than the whole damn city.
It's a one-day story.
Clock's ticking.
Bonnie, it's so nice to--
"Bryn, so tough,
yet so brittle
"that a friendly pat
on the shoulder
might break her
into a thousand pieces."
Fuck that shit.
Bryn isn't you, Bonnie.
Shit.
Yes, she is.
She is. You are.
You can't do this
because it's wrong
and unfair,
and feels like
a violation of trust.
We can talk
about those feelings.
I don't want to talk to you
about my feelings ever again.
[Bonnie] You made me think
that I had feelings,
which I was fucking just fine
before all of that bullshit.
And now I, like, cry.
-Really?
-You do?
Once, but the point is...
Fuck, Wendy,
what the fuck?
The truth isn't always pleasant,
but it is useful.
Not to this place.
It will...
Internally,
it is causing trouble.
And externally,
it is going to make us
look ridiculous and--
I know, a man in your position
cannot afford
to look ridiculous.
I was not going to quote
Godfather   at you,
but now that you have, yes.
Look, if there are
particular details
that you find
personally revealing--
and for the record,
let me be clear
that none of this
is really about any of you
in a way that is actionable,
which has been vetted
by the publisher and et cetera--
But if there are
particular details
that you wish changed,
well, that's why I gave you
an early look.
What if you
just fucking stuff it.
I have a suggestion for where.
I can't.
I have to get this
out there.
I have to tell the truth.
Sorry it hurts.
Sorry isn't the end
of anything.
If you mean it, it's supposed
to be the beginning
that leads to a change.
You've just described
what my book is.
Rule number one of apologies is:
You don't do it
if it makes the situation worse.
[Bonnie]
Well fucking said, Ben Kim.
[sighs]
Ah, soy.
The OG in alternative milks.
-It stands the test of time.
-Sure,
because people have become
habituated to it.
To me, it has the mouthfeel
of puddle water
and tastes like
I would imagine
the breast milk
of a lactating vegan drifter
living out of
a VW camper van would.
And look at you
with your blessed oat milk.
It froths velvety smooth
for asinine latte art,
which you probably practice
in your free time.
And the caloric content?
You may not be drinking cow,
but enough oat
and you'll be fat as one.
With zero
nutritional value.
You sure you haven't
puffed up a bit
since your first cup
at the opening bell?
[Dave]
Just look at fucking that.
-Mm.
-Just as you said.
It's like the statue
of David.
It's one thing
to hear about it,
another thing
to see it in person.
David really is something
up close.
People know the truth.
That's why they're here.
That's why they're talking
about this.
A man like Prince shouldn't
be holding all this city's land.
All he'll do is want more.
More land. More money. More.
And it seems to me that--
Yeah.
He has more than
he should have right now.
I get it.
I calibrated your turntable's
air suspension system.
-And the new stylus?
-Installed.
A Clearaudio Goldfinger,
16 grams of pure gold.
We have a far more
expensive problem.
The NYAG secured
a court order
and seized back
all the Olympic land
without a refund.
Seeking damages too.
That's my land.
I own it.
I spoke with Sacker about it.
By using them
for another purpose,
you arguably defaulted on
the performance-based mortgages
-from the land bank.
-Damn.
I knew we had a Chuck problem,
but he's gone.
So, do we have
a Dave problem?
Let's find out.
[traffic ambience]
This suits you.
You look at home already.
You didn't come to welcome me
to the neighborhood.
No, not entirely.
I came in the hopes of us
moving past any squabbles
I might have had
with your predecessor.
You came for your land.
I did.
But it's not yours.
Not really.
You entered into a compact.
Your needs changed,
I get it.
But that broke the compact,
so we took it back.
And just to be clear,
the "we" is the NYAG.
Me. My office.
Not me and Chuck.
Well, then I'd like to make
a new compact,
do a new transaction.
I have other uses
for those patches of dirt,
very worthy uses.
I'm going to say no.
Well, if that's your position,
this is going to end
in lawsuits.
Or tears.
And they're not
going to be mine.
Haven't cried since
I saw   Sophie's Choice.
And the truth is,
even then I was faking it
because I was on a date.
So, good luck.
He's rattled.
Can you rattle him more?
I believe I can.
[scoffs]
Yes, I never got back to you
about those job offers.
My answer is,
I already have a job.
Exposing Mike Prince,
dollar by dollar,
for the scourge that he is.
Now, Chuck,
a man who tells on himself
like that
is both snitch
and scoundrel.
Yeah, better than being
an accomplice.
It's her. It's Dave.
-We have a Dave problem.
-No. Not just her.
We don't have
a Chuck or Dave problem.
We have both.
You can spare me
the breakfast buffet.
You came all this way.
The least I can do is feed you.
I'm not here
out of deference.
Or hunger pangs,
for that matter.
Right now?
I can't be seen taking a meeting
with you in Borough Hall.
And I always break up
in person.
If this is about the
Attorney General's land grab--
It's about all of it.
What's the charge here?
That I'm rich?
Of course I am.
That I can afford
to free people
from the hamster wheel
of poverty?
Damn right I can.
Rhoades and Mahar
want to make this about me.
No, this is about the people
getting squeezed so tight
they can't even breathe.
Now why would anyone think
that Mike Money was about you?
I can put this
back together.
-Help me keep those lands--
-[Faire] Help you?
When according
to that clock outside,
you blink and the boodle
just rolls in.
I'm out, the mayor's out,
the council's out.
Might as well grab a fistful
of that Mike Money
and play Monopoly with it.
At least it'll be good
for something.
Yang left a voicemail.
I didn't want to...
He's out too.
He says right message,
wrong messenger.
So we regroup,
we refocus...
I'll pay for the entire
pilot program myself.
That billboard will be
my promissory note.
-Expensive.
-Get with Wags.
Tell him his Chinese
infrastructure thing's a go.
We're early. Check.
Dressed appropriately.
Check.
I trust that you're prepared,
not that you have to do anything
-other than smile and nod yes.
-Of course.
If I could take this opportunity
to impress upon you
the importance of face
when dealing with the Chinese--
-Got it. Let's go.
-As you are of higher rank,
you should precede me.
I'm aware.
[violin music playing]
[man]
To our shared prosperity.
[speaking Chinese]
We're supposed to go
shot for shot.
It can be
a punishing custom.
I should've told you
to eat something beforehand.
-I did.
-Of course you did.
I wish I had.
This is the chop.
We use it to cement important
business deals like this one.
Of course.
I know of the chop's emergence
during the Warring States
period.
[speaks Chinese]
[in English] But I'm going
to have to pass on your offer.
I can't do business
with a group that has ties
to a government with such
a brutally poor record
on human rights.
I can't help enrich
the oppressors.
If you'd like to influence
your government
to start treating people
like people,
with decency and humanity,
please give me a call.
Otherwise, good night.
[Wags]
Wait.
I figured you were ready to make
up for losses on the land.
You showed up to give them the
finger and turn down billions?
What the fuck was that?
And now I've lost face.
[liquid pouring]
[Andy] There are simpler ways
than a PR crisis
to get me off the mountain.
Did they do all this when you
thought the girls were coming?
Yeah.
It's time to do the thing.
I wanted to present
to the whole--
It's the wrong time.
That wealth clock, the girls
are getting brutalized.
Yeah, well, they've had
a pretty good life up till now.
You gonna keep
your end of the deal?
How much will it cost?
Three. Maybe more.
Fuck.
Three billion dollars.
You never cared about it before.
So, you gonna keep
the promise you made?
Things have changed.
You still need me?
They haven't changed
that much.
Yes, I do.
You and I,
we can't embarrass
each other.
When we're apart, if we need
to slake our appetites--
No embarrassment.
Everything locked down.
It is, or it will be?
Don't ask that.
Why ask that?
You left. I called.
You couldn't come.
You know what that results in.
You gonna keep the promises
you make to them?
I'm the only guy that will.
That's why I'm doing it.
Then, yeah.
Good.
Based on our last
interaction,
I suggest we have
a meet-up after work
and iron out
this successor business.
Yes, before it upends
both of us.
I had a similar thought.
[door opens]
[typing]
Only have a minute.
Have John Heilemann
coming in here.
Need me to prep you?
Probably. No time.
Our last session
was under false pretenses.
Was it not?
Dual purpose.
Helped you, did it not?
It did.
Helped me too.
The book needs
to tell the truth.
I was wrong about you.
Needed to get it right.
Why do the book
in the first place?
Well, I didn't intend
to write it.
I was seized with an impulse,
and wrote it before
I really knew I had.
Must've been a lot of stuff you
wanted to say for a long time.
It was just that kind
of release, yes.
And after you were done?
Yeah.
Yep, like I could move forward.
Lighter. Easier.
With more freedom.
But it's not complete
unless I publish it.
I imagine you're going
to try and stop me.
Is that why you think
I called you in? To stop you?
Well, I imagine you're here
to tell me what my lawyer did.
What Sacker told you.
That you could prove loss
and damage to your reputation.
That to publish the book would
blow up the life
and career that I have.
I'm not gonna put up
road blocks.
I'm not gonna punish you
when and if you do publish.
The question isn't
whether you can.
The question is
whether you should.
Not a lot of "should"
conversations
in this office
before you got here.
Well, I'm thinking back
to our last conversation,
and how it's important
to consider ramifications.
And what I want to tell you
is that only you can decide
if it's the right thing to do.
But one thing
you'd better consider
is that we rarely know why
we do the things we do,
like writing a book,
putting it out.
And the true "why,"
that usually isn't the first
thing that comes to mind.
That's usually the BS
we tell ourselves
to rationalize the behavior.
So before you do or you don't
dig in on that,
why are you really
doing this?
Meanwhile, I've got to get
in the zone
to tangle with
the only journalist
who might get confused
for George "The Animal" Steele.
[sighs]
I'll admit I'm a little
surprised you didn't cancel.
It's been a pretty tough
news cycle for you, pal.
Well, I'm doing this
on background.
Nothing on the record.
Can't use my name at all.
So, uh, how are we
gonna handle attribution?
"Sources close to Mike Prince."
Okay, um, no source closer
to Mike Prince than Mike Prince.
Have at it, but Scooter
gets to clear any quote.
Scooter can clear
anything he wants,
but I got to say,
I don't see a story here
other than one that you
are gonna fucking hate.
"Another billionaire
shoots the moon
and then spins
out of Earth's orbit."
Well, get ready
for an exclusive.
I'm funding the Mike Money
pilot program myself,
100% out of pocket.
Fully digital platform.
And if I can get
the Department of Finance
to share their data...
"Exclusive" means you might
want to jot some of this down.
Look, Mike, it's always
a pleasure to see you, it is.
And I'd give my right nut
to have you take a look
at my 401(k).
But Chuck Rhoades is the one
who's driving the conversation
on income inequality right now,
and you are not part of it.
Aside from that wealth clock
on your block.
Well, I appreciate your candor.
And, uh, I can't wait
to prove you wrong.
I mean, look,
I did hear this one thing.
It sounded like bullshit,
so I wasn't going to raise it.
What's the question?
A pretty janky source of mine
claims that you,
of all people,
turned down the chance
to get into business
with some Chinese consortium
on some huge deal
over human rights abuses?
Sources close to Mike Prince
say he'd never embarrass
a potential
business associate.
Not his style.
I guess that sounded
like bullshit.
I wasn't even going
to talk about it.
But he's not about
to make a dime off of genocide,
or state-led torture,
or child labor,
not as long
as he draws a breath.
This wasn't
to free my ego.
It was to let it
run loose.
I thought I would show them all
who they were.
And who I was:
better than them.
Higher on the food chain.
Evolved.
Now I see it.
Where it would lead.
I can't do it.
I can't...
take that ride.
In the end, it's a ride
that only leads to needing more.
[sighs]
Which is exactly
what I don't need.
And now you're ready...
to take refuge.
-So...
-Yep. Cocktails.
Indeed.
What are you thinking?
Mescal margaritas?
I'm anti-smoke when it
comes to tobacco and drinks.
-You have a thought?
-Boulevardiers?
Love it,
but a notch lighter.
-An Old Pal.
-Exactly.
I add a dash of bitters.
Is that okay?
As long as it's not orange,
or celery flavored,
or chocolate, or anything--
Anything but Angostura?
No way, it's the classic
or nothing at all for me.
We've finally arrived
at an area of agreement.
You know, it occurs that certain
aspects of our approaches--
You mean what we've been able to
express despite the subterfuge?
Yes, certain aspects of what we
bring are highly complimentary.
I agree.
Pairing our strengths
might have merit.
A spot check on ideas,
some grounding
for the riskiest plays.
A bit of ballast is always
welcome on high flights.
As is an aggressive,
unconventional stance.
A power-sharing arrangement
came to mind.
-Co-heads.
-A council of two.
I'm good with that concept,
provisionally.
Of course, we'll have
to get to know each other
much better over time.
Time we will
certainly have, though.
You've known him longer,
through your uncle.
What's behind this?
Why would a guy at his peak
as an investor,
who just took over a company,
embark on this sudden,
vague succession process?
Mike Prince, three-time loser
in the public eye,
yet here he is
looking good once again
for telling the Chinese
to go whistle.
At enormous cost
to his bottom line.
The article says,
"Prince, in standing up
to the Chinese,
is willing to do something
the White House hasn't
in decades,
maybe ever."
What is this guy doing?
[laughter]
[Wags] Why would you go
out of your way to turn down
a multi-billion-dollar
opportunity,
then leak the fuck out of it
to the press?
I'm not asking
rhetorically.
I need to fucking know who
the fuck I'm working with,
and that they're not insane.
Why does a guy in the prime
of his life,
with a resting heart rate
like Tim Ferriss's
suddenly form
a succession committee?
Something he's never done
at his dozens of companies.
Huh.
Wisconsin, Michigan,
Pennsylvania,
Iowa, et cetera.
And why, after dinging
Chuck Rhoades almost fatally,
did you try to hire him?
You can't stand having enemies?
Got to win everyone over?
Why does a guy hold companies
and plants and businesses
in every state
that was pivotal in the last
four national elections,
without a single layoff
at any of them,
some losing money?
[Philip]   Why, after losing
the ambassadorship he coveted,
after seeing his Olympic dreams
go down the drink,
does the man go bigger?
Something national
in scope and ambition--
And he doesn't bother to
re-focus on his core businesses?
Why is it Prince won't yield
on Mike Money,
can't yield, even after
he lost his collateral
and everybody bailed.
Why does he need this win
so badly?
Here's why.
Michael fucking Prince
is running for president.
President of the United States
of America.
And one of us...
-Both of us.
-...could be running
Michael Prince Capital
very soon.
He already knows,
so we should tell him.
Holy shit.
[laughs]
Oh.
This guy is Greg Stillson
from   Dead Zone.
Our interests and the broader
interests are now
actually legitimately aligned.
They are.
We need to save the country
by stopping Mike Prince.
So now you see
why it wasn't enough
to remove Chuck from office,
to try to neutralize him.
No.
We need to take that son of
a bitch entirely off the board.
[Bruce Springsteen]
Honey, I want the heart
I want the soul
I want control right now
You better listen to me
Baby
Talk about a dream
Try to make it real
You wake up in the night
With a fear so real
You spend your life waiting
For a moment
That just don't come
Well, don't waste your time
Waiting
Badlands
You gotta live it every day
Let the broken hearts stand
As the price
You've gotta pay
Keep pushing
Till it's understood
And these badlands
Start treating us good